Log of thoughts

1) What queries would be needed to produce the graphs - what database would support them.

Task is

"create an application that helps users decide on what day
and at what time of day a flight should be booked at in order to avoid
delays for a given pair of origin and destination airports"

2) interpreting this as user will be required to
- select a pair of airports, then graphs will be shown

"A bar chart of the flight delays" - Question - what precisely is "the flight delays" - 
should this graph be number of flights that were delayed by hour? (time period) if so would that 
not artificially make times with more total flights look better.

"a bar chart of the flight delay ratios" - IS this a bar of how many flights vs delay ratio in various bands,
or average delay ratio vs day and hour

Need to ask this. However in terms of database choice that means ideally the database should support

- filtering by equality and comparison
- grouping on equality and comparison
- aggregate functions on groups, and overall.

The usual choice for working with node seems to be mongo => google what this supports.

...

shallow look indicates that it would. (also starting to wonder if the exercise was inspired by 
this https://www.mongodb.com/presentations/mongodb-analytics-learn-aggregation-example-exploratory-analytics-and-visualization?jmp=docs which was linked off the mongodb docs :) )

...

Question - should I use typesript

Answer - probably not - trying to build both a client and server application at the same time looks to have complications, and not worth
the benefits for a small project and when trying to spend a maximum of 8 hours.

that said, maybe worth trying it with parcel bundler

...

parcel seems to work pretty well even with typescript although concern is this means currently only have a dev build and no production build, should be fine for a coding challenge though.

Should typescript be used both on client and server - probably - but could convert typescript later

...

More thoughts on db if filtering to an airport pair would want a combined index on them - does mongo support indexes - yes :) Still ok to use it :)

...

Actually though - is a db needed at all - dataset has around 100000 records - which isn't that big for a computer.
Also concerned including a db would end up meaning when I submit the technical test, they have to configure a db connection to use it,
and would I lose marks for it being difficult to set up and run - even if using a database may technically be a better solution.
And it *might* be faster to write without db (not necessarily though)

Lets try without and see how it goes.

...

Do we need the Arrival time if we are given both the delay and elapsed time? -
lets combine CRS departure time and date and make some sort of datetime object (moment)

...

How to do styling - would ideally like to use css modules but setting this up with typescript is a bit hacky -
- possibly could just use a standard stylesheet and set the names.

...

Thought - really should have used a third party component for suggestion lists. The amount of work to make it usable is way more than anticipated

